>> Wooduff: DWINDLING STOCKS OF
FOOD, WATER AND OTHER AID ARE
STOKING FEAR AND CHAOS IN THE
PHILIPPINES, ADDING TO DESPAIR
IN THE AFTERMATH OF THE TYPHOON.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY, THE
FIRST OFFICIAL NUMBERS ARE OUT;
ROUGHLY 100,000 PEOPLE HAVE
SIGNED UP FOR HEALTH INSURANCE
IN THE NEW STATE AND FEDERAL
MARKETPLACES, WELL SHORT OF
INITIAL EXPECTATIONS.
>> Wooduff: AND WE CLOSE WITH
ANOTHER PERSONAL TAKE ON THE
SETBACKS AND SUCCESSES OF
HEALTH-CARE REFORM.
TONIGHT, A CANCER PATIENT SHARES
HER STORY.
>> THE AFFORDABLE HEALTHRE ACACT
MEANS THAT I HAVE A CHANCE, THAT
I DON'T HAVE TO STOP TREATMENT
>> Wooduff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S "PBS
NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: SIX DAYS OF MISERY AND
DESPERATION BRED ANARCHY TODAY
IN THE PHILIPPINES, WHERE THE
TYPHOON DEATH TOLL ROSE AGAIN TO
NEAR 2,350.
SURVIVORS LOOTED WHOLE
WAREHOUSES AND EVEN DUG UP WATER
PIPES AROUND TACLOBAN ON HARD-
HIT LEYTE ISLAND.
WE BEGIN OUR COVERAGE WITH JOHN
IRVINE OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."
HE SPENT THE DAY ON THE ISLAND'S
EASTERNMOST TIP.
>> Reporter: IT'S THE LAST
PLACE OUTSIDERS HAVE REACHED,
THE EASTERN EDGE OF THIS
COUNTRY, WHERE THE PHILIPPINES
MEET THE PACIFIC.
WE HEADED INTO WHAT'S LEFT.
THE SOLDIER WITH US WAS A GUIDE,
NOT A GUARD.
THE PEOPLE HERE COULD NOT HAVE
BEEN MORE WELCOMING AS THEY
SHOWED US THE HORRENDOUS
DESTRUCTION.
THIS LOCATION, NORMALLY A
BLESSING, WAS ON FRIDAY A
TERRIBLE CURSE.
THERE'S NOTHING TO THE EAST OF
THIS TOWN, OTHER THAN THOUSANDS
OF MILES OF PACIFIC OCEAN, AND
IT WAS FROM THERE THAT THE
TYPHOON CAME.
THE MOST POWERFUL STORM EVER
RECORDED BY MAN FIRST
ENCOUNTERED MANKIND RIGHT HERE
AND DEALT A TERRIBLE BLOW.
SEVERAL PEOPLE WERE KILLEE SPORS
A SHELTER, A REFUGE THAT BECAME
A DEATH TRAP AS THE TYPHOON BLEW
THE ROOF IN.
THE MONSTER STORM KILLED AT
LEAST 85 PEOPLE.
AND THE SURVIVORS STILL CAN'T
QUITE BELIEVE THAT THEY LIVED
THROUGH IT.
VINCENT, WHAT WAS IT LIKE?
>> IT WAS LIKE-- IT WAS LIKE EYE
DON'T KNOW.
IT WAS LIKE SUNAWMY AND
EARTHQUAKE AT THE SAME TIME.
IT SHOOK ALL OUR WALLS.
IT TOOK ALL OUR ROOF.
IT TOOK EVERYTHING OUT.
WE-- WE WERE ALL WET.
WE WERE-- SOME WERE DEAD,
BECAUSE OF THE WALLS-- THE WALLS
CRUMBLED DOWN.
I THOUGHT I WAS NEVER GOING TO
SEE THE MORNING.
I THOUGHT I WAS REALLY NOT GOING
TO MAKE IT.
>> Reporter: THE U.S. MARINES
CAME HERE TO CARRY OUT AN
ASSESSMENT OF NEED, AND THEIR
CONCLUSION CAN ONLY HAVE BEEN
THE SAME AS OURS-- SEND HELP,
FAST.
>> Ifill: OUR SECOND REPORT
COMES FROM JOHN SPARKS, ALSO OF
"INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS."
HE SPENT THE DAY IN ORMOC, WHERE
THINGS SEEM CALMER, DESPITE THE
NEED FOR OUTSIDE AID.
>> Reporter: THE CITY OF ORMOC
HAS BEEN DEVASTATED.
BUT THE PEOPLE WHO LIVE HERE
HAVE ONE THING GOING FOR THEM--
WATER.
CLEAN, FRESH WATER.
A NUMBER OF PUBLIC PUMPS ARE
STILL WORKING.
AND THAT'S SOMETHING TO SMILE
ABOUT.
>> HOW ARE YOU DOING TODAY?
>> WE'RE OKAY.
WE'VE GOT NO FOOD.
NO ELECTRICITY.
BUT YOU KNOW WHAT?
WE'RE STILL HAPPY.
>> Reporter: THIS COMMUNITY
WAS TORN APART BY THE TYPHOON
AND MANY HERE ARE HUNGRY.
BUT THERE'S NO SIGN OF PANIC OR
LOOTING THAT'S AFFLICTED OTHER
CITIES IN THE REGION.
OUTSIDE ORMOC'S MAIN HOTEL, ONE
OF A SMALL NUMBER OF SPOTS WITH
A GENERATOR, PEOPLE CAME TO
CHARGE THEIR PHONES AND SHARE
STORIES OF SURVIVAL.
THIS VIDEO WAS SHOT ON A MOBILE
BY A 20RE THE
STORE REMOVED THE SECOND FLOOR
OF HIS HOUSE.
HE SAID HE WAS TERRIFIED.
WE ALSO MET A WOMAN IN THE QUEUE
FOR A SOACT.
SHE'S A SINGLE MOTHER OF TWO AND
PREGNANT, AND SHE'S NOW
HOMELESS.
>> ( translated ):VERY ETHING
WAS DESTROYED.
THE ONLY THING I COULD DO WAS
WATCH IT HAPPEN.
>> Reporter: SHE TOOK THESE
PICTURES FROM HER NEIGHBOR'S
HSE.OU
SHE TOLD US THE STORM HAD LEFT
HER WITH NOTHING.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE
NOWHERE TO LIVE.
THERE'S NO FOOD, AND I REALLY
NEED HELP.
PLEASE, END US FOOD.
I'M APPEALING TO YOU.
>> Reporter: LATER, WE HEADED
TOWARDS THE DESTRUCTIVE
EPICENTER OF THIS STORM, THE
CITY OF TACLOBAN.
IT'S NOT AN EASY DRIVE, HOWEVER.
THE HIGHWAY, A FEARSOME OBSTACLE
COURSE OF DEBRIS AND DOWNED
POWER LINES.
WE PULLED OFF THE HIGHWAY IN A
TOWN WHICH HAS REALLY BEEN WIPED
OUT BY THE STORM.
AND WE'RE TOLD THAT THERE ARE
MORE THAN 1,000 LOCAL PEOPLE NOW
LIVING IN THE ELEMENTARY SCHOOL,
SO WE'RE GOING TO GO AND SEE HOW
THEY'RE DOING.
HELLO.
THE SCHOOL IS NOW HOME TO HALF
OF THE COMMUNITY'S POPULATION,
AND THERE'S CERTAINLY NO SPACE
FOR LESSONS HERE.
WE WENT TO MEET THE NEW
OCCUPANTS OF THE GRADE FIVE
CLASSROOM.
>> AND ASKED ONE WOMAN HOW MANY
PEOPLE LIVED INSIDE.
>> WE HAVE SIX FAMILIES FROM
INSIDE.
>> Reporter: SIX FAMILIES
INSIDE THE CLASSROOM?
>> YEAH.
>> Reporter: THERE CAN'T BE
MUCH SPACE.
>> WE STAND OR --
>> Reporter: "WELL, WE HAVE
ROOM TO STAND," SHE SAID.
HOW LONG DO YOU THINK RE>> WE'RE
MAYBE ALMOST FOUR MONTHS.
WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY.
>> Reporter: AND THERE IS
GREAT UNCERTAINTY ON THE ROAD TO
TACLOBAN.
PEOPLE IN THESE DEVASTATED
COMMUNITIES TOLD US THEY WERE
HUNGRY AND THIRSTY, AND THEY
TOLD US THEY HAVE BEEN
OVERLOOKED AS THE GOVERNMENT
TEND TO OTHER THINGS.
>> ( translated ): THE RELIEF
CONVOY JUST PASS US BY.
THEY DON'T STOP.
THERE'S NOTHING TO DO BUT LOOK
AT THEM.
I GUESS I CAN'T GET MAD ABOUT
IT.
>> Reporter: WE REACHED
TACLOBAN SHORTLY BEFORE
NIGHTFALL, A CITY OF TWISTED
STEEL, AND SHATTERED GLASS, A
CITY OF DEATH, THE SMELL OF
DECOMPOSING BODIES LINGERS
EVERYWHERE.
THE MILITARY WERE OUT IN FORCE
AFTER LOOTING AND MOB VIOLENCE,
BUT PEOPLE HERE HAVE OTHER
CONCERNS.
>> THE BIGGEST PROBLEM HERE IS
THAT THERE IS NO FOOD, NO
MEDICINE.
WATER IS VERY HARD TO COME BY.
THERE IS JUST ONLY ONE SOURCE OF
WATER, AND THAT IS THERE AT THE
CITY HALL.
AND THAT LEAVES NO FOOD.
>> Reporter: UNLIKE THE PUBLIC
PUMPS OF ORMOC, THIS IS THE ONLY
PLACE TO FIND WATER IN TACLOBAN,
A SOLITARY FILTER STATION.
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH TO GO AROUND,
AND IT IS FUELING A STATE OF
DESPERATION HERE.
>> Ifill: AND FOR MORE ON THAT
GROWING STATE OF DESPERATION IN
THE WAKE OF HAIYAN, WE TURN TO
RICHARD GORDON, THE CHAIRMAN OF
THE RED CROSS IN THE
PHILIPPINES.
I SPOKE TO HIM A SHORT WHILE AGO
BY TELEPHONE.
RICHARD GORDON, WELCOME, AND
THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
YOU ARE NOW IN MANILA, BUT WE'RE
HEARING REPORTS ABOUT CHAOS
BREAKING OUT IN THE HARDEST HIT
REGIONS OF THE PHILIPPINES.
IS THE DESIRE FOR RELIEF NOW
TURPG INTO DESPERATION?
>> WELL, YES, A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF DESPERATION IS GOING ON
BECAUSE OF THE SLOWNESS OF THEBN
ACCESS, THE FALLEN DEBRIS,
TREES.
AND THEN WE HAVE SECURITY
ISSUES.
THERE HAS BEEN A BREAKDOWN OF
PEACE AND ORDER, AND  STORES ARE
BEING LOOTED.
AND THERE ARE DIFFICULT ISSUES.
YOU KNOW, COMMUNICATIONS ARE
DOWN UP TO NOW.
SO THERE'S GREAT DIFFICULTY.
PEOPLE ARE GETTING VERY ANXIOUS
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, YOU SEE YOUR
HOMES TOTALLY DEMOLISHED, AND
YO CHURILDREN ARE HUNGRY OR
DEAD, CERTAINLY PEOPLE TURN TO
DESPERATION.
>> Ifill: HOW HAS THE
GOVERNMENT RESPONSE BEEN.
>> UNFORTUNATELY, THE LANGUAGE
ELEMENT CAME IN, AND THERE
WASN'T VERY MUCH EXPLAINED TO
THE PUBLIC THAT THERE WERE GOING
TO BE STORM SURGES, AND STORM
SURGES HAVE BEEN UNKNOWN.
THEY MIGHT HAVE BEEN BETTER IF
THEY DESCRIBED IT AS MINITIDAL
WAVES CAUSED BY THE WIND.
SO MANY PEOPLE HAVE SUFFERED
BECAUSE OF THAT AND DIED.
BUT THE GOVERNMENT IS
EXACERBATING THE PROBLEM BY NOT
SPEEDING UP THE EFFORTS, AND
ALLOWING MORE FLIGHTS AND SHIPS
TO GET IN.
THE ARMY AND POLICE WOULD BE
ABLE TO HAVE A VERY GOOD GRIP
AND STRONG ENFORCEMENT OF PEACE
AND ORDER.
>> Ifill: HOW IS JUR STAFF
DOING?
HOW WHERE THEY COPING WITH THE
WATER, THE FOOD, THE SHELTER,
GETTING THEM TO WHERE THEY NEED
TO GO?
>> WE HAVE THREE CONTAINERS OF
TRUCKS, 25,000 LITERS OF WATER.
WE HAVE FOOD WE'RE GOING TO
DRING BRING IN.
AND ALSO WE HAVE TENTS AND
PROVIDE HOSPITALS FOR PREGNANT
MOTHERS OR SOME PRIVACY.
AND CERTAINLY, MEDICINES, AND
WE'RE ALSO HELPING OUT CLEARING,
PEOPLE CLEARING STREETS AND
GOING TO TOWNS WITH CHAIN SAWS
AND CONCRETE SAWS.
HOPEFULLY WITH ABOUT 65 PEOPLE
IN PLACE, WE CAN BE A LOT BETTER
AND MORE SECURE.
>> Ifill: RICHARD GORDON,
CHAIRMAN OF THE PHILIPPINE RED
CROSS, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US ON THE PHONE.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: OVERALL, IT TURNS OUT,
THIS HAS BEEN JUST AN AVERAGE
YEAR FOR TROPICAL STORMS.
THE U.N. WEATHER AGENCY REPORTED
TODAY THERE HAVE BEEN 86 STORMS
WORLDWIDE-- THREE SHORT OF THE
ANNUAL AVERAGE SINCE 1981.
THE ATLANTIC HURRICANE SEASON
WAS THE QUIETEST SINCE 1994.
BUT NORTHWESTERN REGIONS OF ETH
PACIFIC OCEAN, HAVE HAD MORE
STORMS THAN USUAL, INCLUDING
TYPHOON "HAIYAN".
THE FIRST OFFICIAL NUMBERS ON
SIGN-UPS UNDER THE NEW HEALTH
CARE LAW ARE OUT AND THEY'RE FAR
BELOW THE ORIGINAL TARGETS.
THE DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES REPORTED TODAY
THAT FEWER THAN 27,000 PEOPLE
ENROLLED ON THE FEDERAL EXCHANGE
IN OCTOBER.
IT SERVES 36 STATES.
NEARLY 80,000 OTHERS SIGNED UP
ON STATE EXCHANGES.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THIS, RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
THE ODDS AGAINST CONGRESS ACTING
ON IMMIGRATION REFORM THIS YEAR,
GREW LONGER TODAY.
HOUSE SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER SAID
THE HOUSE WILL NOT ACT ON THE
SWEEPING BILL THE SENATE PASSED
IN JUNE.
IT PROVIDES A PATH TO
CITIZENSHIP FOR THE 11 MILLION
PEOPLE LIVING HERE ILLEGALLY.
>> THE IDEA THAT WE'RE GOING TO
TAKE UP A 1,300 PAGE BILL THAT
NO ONE HAD EVER READ, WHICH IS
WHAT SENATE DID, IS NOT GOING TO
HAPPEN IN THE HOUSE.
AND FRANKLY I'LL MAKE CLEAR WE
HAVE NO INTENTION OF EVER GOING
TO CONFERENCE ON THE SENATE
BILL.
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, PRESIDENT
OBAMA MET WITH RELIGIOUS LEADERS
TO TALK ABOUT IMMIGRATION.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAYS THEY AGREED
ERETH'S A MORAL IMPERATIVE TO
OVERHAUL EXISTING LAW.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
APPEALED TO CONGRESS TODAY TO
POSTPONE ACTION ON NEW SANCTIONS
AGAINST IRAN.
HE SPOKE BEFORE JOINING VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN IN PRIVATE
MEETINGS WITH THE SENATE BANKING
COMMITTEE AND DEMOCRATIC
LEADERS.
KERRY SAID SANCTIONS WON'T HELP
EFFORTS TO GET IRAN TO FREEZE
ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
>> WE NOW ARE NEGOTIATING, AND
THE RISK IS THAT IF CONGRESS
WERE TO UNILATERALLY MOVE TO
RAISE SANCTIONS, IT COULD BREAK
FAITH WITH THOSE NEGOTIATIONS
AND ACTUALLY STOP THEM AND BREAK
THEM APART.
>> Ifill: THOSE NUCLEAR TALKS
BETWEEN IRAN AND SIX WORLD
POWERS AREET T SO RESUME NEXT
WEEK.
OPIUM PRODUCTION IN AFGHANISTAN
HAS SURGED TO RECORD LEVELS THIS
YEAR.
THE U.N. DRUG CONTROL AGENCY
REPORTED TODAY IT'S UP NEARLY
50% SINCE 2012.
THE POPPY HARVEST PRODUCED MORE
THAN 6,000 TONS OF OPIUM, MORE
THAN THE REST OF THE WORLD,
COMBINED.
IN KABUL, A U.N. OFFICIAL WARNED
THE HUGE SUPPLY IS FUELING THE
USE OF OPIUM AMONG AFGHANS.
>> ( translated ): AFGHANISTAN
IS CONFRONTED WITH AN ENORMOUS
ADDICTION PROBLEM.
THEY ARE HURTING THEMSELVES.
ONE MILLION ADDICTS AND A
GROWING POPULATION.
WE HAVE THE BIGGEST OPIUM
CULTIVATION WITNESSED EVER AND
THIS IN A CONSECUTIVE THREE
YEARS TIME.
>> Ifill: CULTIVATION OF OPIUM
POPPIES IN AFGHANISTAN HAS
SPREAD DESPITE BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS IN INTERNATIONAL AID TO
TRY TO ERADICATE THE CROP.
IN IRAQ, A WAVE OF NEW ATTACKS
ASHURA.
AT LEAST 22 PEOPLE DIED IN
BOMBINGS AND SHOOTINGS.
MANY WERE SHI-ITES
COMMEMORATING THE DEATH OF THE
PROPHET MUHAMMAD'S GRANDSON IN
THE SEVENTH CENTURY.
MILITANTS ALSO ASSASSINATED THE
MAYOR OF FALLUJAH, IN WESTERN
IRAQ.
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S NOMINEE TO RUN
THE HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT
TOLD SENATORS TODAY IT'S
ESSENTIAL TO FIX THE AGENCY'S
INTERNAL PROBLEMS.
AT HIS CONFIRMATION HEARING, JEH
JOHNSON SAID FILLING PERSONNEL
OPENINGS AND BOOSTING MORALE ARE
EVEN HIGHER PRIORITIES THAN THE
CORE MISSION OF FIGHTING
TERRORISM.
>> MORALE IS DRIVEN IN LARGE
PART BY JUST BASIC, ECONOMIC
ISSUES.
WHEN SOMEBODY HASN'T HAD A PAY
RAISE IN A LONG TIME.
AND THEY'RE THREATENED WITH
SEQUESTRATION OR GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN THAT TAKES ITS TOLL.
SO I EXPECT TO ADDRESS MORALE,
BUT THERE ARE LIMITS TO WHAT YOU
CAN DO WITHOUT GIVING PEOPLE
SOME BASIC RELIEF.
>> Ifill: MOST SENATORS SAY THEY
SUPPORT JOHNSON.
REPUBLICANS LINDSEY GRAHAM AND
JOHN McCAIN SAY THEY'LL STALL
THE NOMINATION UNTIL THEY GET
MORE ANSWERS ON BORDER SECURITY
AND THE ATTACK ON THE U.S.
CONSULATE IN BENGHAZI, LIBYA.
21 NATIONS IN THE MIDDLE EAST
AND NEARBY REGIONS DECLARED
TODAY THAT ERADICATING POLIO IS
AN EMERGENCY PRIORITY.
THE VIRUS RECENTLY PARALYZED
MORE THAN A DOZEN CHILDREN IN
SYRIA, AND TRIGGERED MASS
VACCINATION CAMPAIGNS IN
SURROUNDING COUNTRIES.
THE STRAIN ORIGINATED IN
PAKISTAN, WHERE MILITANTS HAVE
ATTACD POKELIO WORKERS, CLAIMING
THEY'RE TRYING TO STERILIZE
MUSLIM CHILDREN.
IN ECONOMIC NEWS, THE UNITED
STATES PRODUCED MORE OIL THAN IT
IMPORTED LAST MONTH FOR THE
FIRST TIME SINCE 1995.
IT FOLLOWS SEVERAL YEARS OF
STEADILY RISING DOMESTIC
PRODUCTION.
AND ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED NEARLY 71 POINTS TO CLOSE
ABOVE 15,821.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 45 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,965.
STILL TO COME ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
THE TECHNOLOGY CHIEFS BEHIND
healthcare.gov GET GRILLED ON
CAPITOL HILL; ANOTHER PERSONAL
STORY OF HEALTH REFORM; NEW
GUIDELINES IN THE FIGHT AGAINST
HEART DISEASE AND STROKE AND THE
LATEST COMPLICATIONS IN THE
EFFORT TO BRING ALL SIDES TO THE
TABLE IN THE LE
>> Wooduff: THE ROLLOUT OF THE
HEALTHCARE LAW TOOK SEVERAL HITS
TODAY.
MOST SIGNIFICANTLY: THOSE LOW
ENROLLMENT NUMBERS OF THE
100,000-PLUS PEOPLE WHO ENROLLED
IN THE NEW FEDERAL AND STATE
EXCHANGES.
A BIG PART OF THE PROBLEM, OF
COURSE, HAS BEEN THE PLAGUED
LAUNCH OF THE FEDERAL WEBSITE,
WHERE AT ONE POINT PEOPLE COULD
NOT EVEN NAVIGATE
healthcare.gov.
WE'LL TAKE A CLOSER LOOK AT
THOSE FIGURES IN A MINUTE.
REPUBLICANS ON CAPITOL HILL
PRESSED THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TODAY ON WHETHER
OTHER MOTIVES PLAYED A ROLE
BEYOND THE TECHNICAL PROBLEMS.
"NEWSHOUR" CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN HAS
OUR REPORT.
>> THIS WASN'T A SMALL MISTAKE.
THIS WAS A MONUMENTAL MISTAKE TO
GO LIVE AND EFFECTIVELY EXPLODE
ON THE LAUNCH PAD.
>> Reporter: AND ACCORDING TO
REPUBLICAN DARRELL ISSA--
CHAIRING TODAY'S HEARING-- THE
BLAME GOES STRAIGHT TO MISSION
CONTROL: THE WHITE HOUSE.
RANKING DEMOCRAT ELIJAH CUMMINGS
FIRED BACK.
>> NOBODY IN THIS ROOM, NOBODY
IN THIS COUNTRY BELIEVES THAT
REPUBLICANS WANT TO FIX THE
WEBSITE.
FOR THE PAST THREE YEARS, THE
NUMBER ONE PRIORITY OF
CONGRESSIONAL REPUBLICANS HAS
BEEN TO BRING DOWN THIS LAW.
>> Reporter: STILL, REPUBLICANS
ARGUED THE WEBSITE'S WOES ARE
PARTIALLY POLITICAL.
THEY SUGGESTED THE REASON PEOPLE
HAD TO CREATE ACCOUNTS BEFORE
THEY COULD SHOP FOR COVERAGE WAS
THE ADMINISTRATION FEARED
STICKER SHOCK WHEN THEY SAW THE
COST.
A TOP TECHNOLOGY OFFICER AT
MEDICARE, HENRY CHAO, INSISTED
THE WHITE HOUSE HAD NO ROLE IN
THAT DECISION.
>> ABSOLUTELY NOT.
IT WAS A DECISION MADE ON THE
RESULTS OF TESTING.
IT WOULD BE PRETTY EGREGIOUS AND
I UNDERSTAND THAT A LOT OF FOLKS
ARE WONDERING WHY THE WEBSITE IS
FUNCTIONING THE WAY IT IS, BUT
TO CONSCIOUSLY KNOW THAT IT
FAILED TESTING AND TO THEN PUT
INTO PRODUCTION FOR PEOPLE TO
USE IS NOT WHAT WE DO.
>> Reporter: AND THE WHITE HOUSE
CHIEF TECHNOLOGY OFFICER TODD
PARK, WHO APPEARED UNDER
SUBPOENA, INSISTED THEY'RE
SLOWLY GETTING THE PROBLEMS
FIXED.
>> THE WEBSITE IS GETTING BETTER
EACH WEEK, AS WE WORK TO IMPROVE
ITS PERFORMANCE, ITS STABILITY,
AND ITS FUNCTIONALITY.
AS A RESULT, MORE AND MORE
INDIVIDUALS ARE SUCCESSFULLY
CREATING ACCOUNTS, LOGGING IN,
AND MOVING ON TO APPLY FOR
COVERAGE AND SHOP FOR PLANS.
>> Reporter: PARK SAID THE SITE
NOW PROCESSES 1,700 NEW ACCOUNTS
AN HOUR AND HANDLES 20,000 TO
25,000 USERS AT ANY GIVEN TIME,
STILL LESS THAN HALF THE
ORIGINAL TARGET.
IN FACT, "THE WASHINGTON POST"
REPORTED OFFICIALS WORKING ON
THE TROUBLED WEBSITE NOW BELIEVE
IT IS UNLIKELY TO BE FULLY
OPERATIONAL BY THE
ADMINISTRATION'S NOVEMBER 30
DEADLINE.
STILL, PARK MAINTAINED AT THE
HEARING THEY WILL MEET THE
DEADLINE.
>> THE TEAM SET A GOAL OF HAVING
healthcare.gov FUNCTION SMOOTHLY
FOR THE VAST MAJORITY OF
AMERICANS.
THE TEAM IS WORKING INCREDIBLY
HARD TO MEET THAT GOAL.
>> I THANK THE GENTLEMAN...
>> WITH SECURE INFORMATION?
>> WITH SECURE INFORMATION.
>> Reporter: THAT POINT WILL BE
CRUCIAL.
A SEPARATE HOUSE COMMITTEE HEARD
TODAY THAT healthcare.gov
ALREADY HAS BEEN TARGETED
UNSUCCESSFULLY, AT LEAST ONCE,
BY A DENIAL OF SERVICE ATTACK.
THE DAYS HEARINGS CAME AS
REPUBLICANS AND SOME DEMOCRATS
RATCHETED UP PRESSURE ON THE
ADMINISTRATION OVER THE
CANCELLATIONS OF MILLIONS OF
EXISTING POLICIES.
PRESIDENT OBAMA PROMISED
REPEATEDLY PEOPLE WHO LIKE THEIR
COVERAGE COULD KEEP IT.
AND JUST YESTERDAY, FORMER
PRESIDENT CLINTON URGED HIM TO
MAKE GOOD ON THE PLEDGE.
ON THE SENATE SIDE, DEMOCRATS
DIANE FEINSTEIN AND MARY
LANDRIEU ARE CO-SPONSORING
LEGISLATION TO GUARANTEE
THAT HAPPENS.
STILL, AT THE WHITE HOUSE, PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY CAUTIONED
TODAY AGAINST LEGISLATIVE
ACTION.
>> AGAIN WE DON'T BELIEVE THAT
PROPOSED LEGISLATION THAT
ACTUALLY CAUSES MORE PROBLEMS
THAN IT FIXES IS THE RIGHT WAY
TO GO.
THE PRESIDENT TASKED HIS TEAM AS
HE MENTIONED LAST WEEK TO COME
UP WITH PROPOSED SOLUTIONS AND
YOU CAN EXPECT US TO BE
ANNOUNCING SOMETHING SOONER
RATHER THAN LATER.
>> Reporter: AND SENATE MAJORITY
HARRY REID ANNOUNCED HIS
DEMOCRATIC CAUCUS WILL MEET WITH
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS TOMORROW.
MEANWHILE, THE HOUSE PLANS TO
VOTE FRIDAY ON A BILL LETTING
PEOPLE KEEP THEIR EXISTING
COVERAGE.
>> Wooduff: BEYOND THE ISSUE OF
CANCELLATIONS, THE QUESTION OF
EXPANDED COVERAGE LOOMS LARGE.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAD
HOPED TO GET SEVEN MILLION MORE
PEOPLE ENROLLED IN THE FIRST
YEAR OF THE NEW EXCHANGES.
MANY EXPERTS ARE ASKING WHETHER
THAT'S STILL DOABLE.
BUT DURING A CONFERENCE CALL
TODAY, HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
SECRETARY KATHLEEN SEBELIUS TOLD
REPORTERS THAT WHEN THE STATE OF
MASSACHUSETTS PASSED ITS OWN
LAW, ENROLLMENT THERE STARTED
VERY SLOWLY, JUST 123 PEOPLE IN
THE FIRST MONTH.
>> WE KNOW EXPERIENCE IN THE BAY
>> Wooduff: MARY AGNES CAREY OF
KAISER HEALTH NEWS IS WITH US
AGAIN TONIGHT.
IT'S AN EDITORIALLY INDEPENDENT
NEWS ORGANIZATION.
MARY AGNES, WELCOME BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
SO WHAT DID WE LEARN TODAY FROM
THE ADMINISTRATION'S OFFICIAL
RELEASE OF THESE NUMBERS?
>> WELL, THEY'RE LOWER THAN
EXPECTED.
ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS FOR
DAYS, FOR WEEKS, HAVE BEEN
TRYING TO DAMPEN EXPECTATIONS.
THESE NUMBERS WOULD BE GREAT,
AND THEY CERTAINLY WERE NOT.
OF THE 10 6,000 POPLEE THAT HAVE
ENROLLED, YOU HAVE ABOUT A
QUARTER OF THOSE THROUGH THE
FEDERAL EXCHANGES, AND THOSE ARE
IN 36 STATES.
THAT'S REALLY A BIG CHUNK OF
STATES THAT ARE BEING RUN BY THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT, THE
EXCHANGES, AND THEN THE
REMAINING THREE-FOURTHS WERE
THREE THE STATE EXCHANGES SET UP
IN ABOUT 15 STATES AND THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMN JA.
>> Woodruff: THREE TO ONE THAT
NUMBER REFLECTS THE STATE
EXCHANGES.
TO WHAT EXTENSION IS THIS
CONSISTENT WITH WHAT THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS BEEN SAYING?
>> THEY HAVE BEEN SAYING
PUBLICLY THEY DID NOT EXPECT TO
VE,HA ALLW ALL THE PROBLEMS
NOTED ON healthcare.gov, THEY
DIDN'T EXPECT GREAT ENROLLMENT
NUMBERS.
LAST MONTH AT A HOUSE WAIMS AND
MEANS COMMITTEE HEARING, DAVE
CAMP, WHO CHAIRS THE COMMITTEE,
HADHAD RELEASED THE CENTERS FOR
MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES
ESTIMATE THAT THEY EXPECTED BY
THE END OF OCTOBER, AROUND
494,000 PEOPLE WOULD HAVE
ENROLLED.
THIS IS WAY BELOW EXPECTATIONS.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ARE THEY
SAYING ABOUT THE PROGRESS THEY
EXPECT TO MAKE?
THEY HAVE THIS NOVEMBER 30
DEADLINE TO GET IT UP ARE &
RUNNING.
>> THEY WERE SAYING THEY
CONTINUE TO MAKE FIXES, THEY ARE
CONFIDENT THE WEB SITE WILL WORK
FOR THE MAJORITY OF USERS.
THEY CAUTION THIS IS A SIX-MONTH
REN OLEMENT PERIOD SO LET'S NOT
MAKE TOO MUCH OF THE FACT OF THE
NUMBERS THAT WERE ANNOUNCED
TODAY, AND THEY TALK ABOUT EARLY
ENROLLMENT FOR PROGRAMS THAT ARE
POPULAR-- MEDICARE PRESCRIPTION
DRUG PROGRAMS FOR EXAMPLE.
THOSE WERE PRETTY LOW IN THE
EARLY DAYS.
SO THIS IS MORE OF A MARATHON
THAN A SPRINT.
>> Woodruff: DID WE LEARN MUCH
MORE TODAY ABOUT WHAT THE
OBSTACLES ARE?
WHAT'S HOLDING THIS BACK?
OR DO WE JUST ASSUME IT'S
COMPUTER PROBLEMS?
>> IT WAS VERY INTERESTING, ON
THE CALL ITSELF, ONE OF THE
REPORTERS SAID HE HAD JUST TRIED
TO CREATE AN ACCOUNT AND
COULDN'T DO IT, AND ONE OF THE
OFFICIALS OF THE ADMINISTRATION
SAID THAT'S AN ANOMALY.
YOU'RE AN OUTLIER.
MOST PEOPLE CAN GET ON TO CREATE
AN ACCOUNT.
IT'S CLEAR FROM THE HEARINGS ON
CAPITOL HILL AND PEOPLE'S
EXPERIENCES THEY STILL HAVE A
LOT OF PROBLEMS WITH THE WEB
SITE THAT THEY HAVE TO CORRECT
AND SMOOTH OUT.
I THINK WHEN PEOPLE ARE
FRUSTRATED THEY DON'T
NECESSARILY GO BACK.
>> Woodruff: BUT THEY ALSO EYE
MEAN, I DID LISTEN TO PART OF
THE CALL, AND YOU HEARD THEM
TALKING ABOUT THE-- THEY GAVE
SOME LARGER NUMBERS FOR PEOPLE
WHO HAVE BEGUN THE PROCESS OF
SIGNING UP.
>> RIGHT, EXACTLY.
>> Woodruff: WHO WERE LOOKING,
EXPLORING.
DOES THAT TELL US SOMETHING
ABOUT THE INTEREST IN THIS OR
DID THEY HAVE ANY SPECULATION
DID BTHAT?
>> THERE ARE ABOUT ONE MILLION
FOLKS WHO SIGNED UP AND CREATED
ACCOUNTS AND GOT ELIGIBILITY
DETERMINATION.
THEY HAVEN'T YET MADE UP THEIR
MIND, AND AS THE SECRETARY WAS
SAYING, PEOPLE ARE LOOK, THEY'RE
SHOPPING, THEY'RE LOOKING AT
THEIR OPTIONS, TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT IF THEY QUALIFY FOR A
SUBSIDY.
THAT DOES PROVIDE?
COMFORTOR T FHE ADMINISTRATION
AND THEY TALK ABOUT ALL THE
INTEREST, ALL THE PEOPLE COMING
TO THE SITE, THE MEDICINE
CHECKING IT OUT, KIND OF KICKING
THE TIRES TO SEE IF IT WORKS FOR
THEM.
>> Woodruff: AND THEY'RE
SAYING, AGAIN, THIS IS WHAT
HAPPENED IN MASSACHUSETTS.
>> RIGHT, EXACTLY, AND THEY'RE A
LITTLE FARTHER ALONG THAN
MASSACHUSETTS WAS AT THIS POINT.
>> Woodruff: MARY AGNES, STAY
WITH US.
>> Ifill: THIS BRINGS US TO
ANOTHER CHAPTER IN OUR SERIES
FEATURING REACTIONS TO THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, AS MORE
PEOPLE BECOME AWARE OF THE
DETAILS.
YESTERDAY WE AIRED THE STORY OF
A WASHINGTON, D.C. LAWYER WHO
WAS ANGRY THAT HER CURRENT
INSURANCE POLICY HAD BEEN
CANCELLED.
TONIGHT WE HEAR FROM A COLORADO
WOMAN WHO WAS DIAGNOSED WITH
CANCER JUST BEFORE HER HUSBAND
LOST HIS JOB AND HIS HEALTH CARE
PLAN.
HERE'S SOME OF WHAT SHE TOLD US:
>> I AM MARTHA MONSSON.
I'M 59 YEARS OLD.
I WAS DIAGNOSED WHEN I WAS 54,
JANUARY OF 2008, WITH MULTIPLE
MYELOMA, WHICH IS A BONE MARROW
CANCER.
THE TREATMENTS FOR THAT MAINLY
ARE CHEMOTHERAPY, BOTH ORAL AND
WHAT THE CHEMOIS FOR
ESSENTIALLY, IS REDUCE THE
NUMBER OF CANCER CELLS.
THIS TREATMENT IS LIFE SAVING.
I WOULD HAVE DIED PROBABLY IN
FEBRUARY 2008 WITHOUT IT.
WHEN I WAS DIAGNOSED, MY HUSBAND
WAS THE COUNTY ATTORNEY IN
MORGAN COUNTY, AND WE HAD
INSURANCE THROUGH THEM.
HIS JOB WAS ELIMINATED, SO SINCE
THEN HE HAS BEEN DOING CONTRACT
WORK WHICH HAS KEPT INCOME
COMING IN, BUT FOR INSURANCE,
ALL WE'VE HAD IS THROUGH COBRA,
AND THAT EXPIRES AT THE END OF
FEBRUARY.
IF HE DOES NOT HAVE ANOTHER JOB
BY THE END OF FEBRUARY, WHICH
WOULD GIVE HIM INSURANCE, WE
WOULD HAVE TO APPLY FOR PRIVATE
INSURANCE, WE WOULD GET TURNED
DOWN BECAUSE OF MY PREEXISTING
CONDITION.
EVEN IF THEY WERE GOING TO TAKE
ME BECAUSE OF THE PREEXISTING
CONDITION, IT WOULD BE HUGELY
EXPENSIVE.
THE AFFORDABLE HEALTHCARE ACT
MEANS THAT I HAVE A CHANCE, THAT
I DON'T HAVE TO STOP TREATMENT
ONCE THE INSURANCE RUNS OUT,
>> WE WILL BE ABLE TO GET
SOMETHING.
>> YEAH, YEAH.
>> BUT WE'LL HAVE TO PAY MORE.
>> IT'S HUGE, AND I THINK
PARTICULARLY TO MY FAMILY,
BECAUSE THEY WOULD NOT LIKE TO
HAVE TO PULL THE PLUG.
THIS LAW IS VERY MUCH A GAME
CHANGER FOR US.
I AM HOPING THAT IN JANUARY,
WHEN THIS COMES INTO EFFECT,
THAT IT WILL GIVE ME MORE OF A
CHANCE, THAT I WILL NOT HAVE TO
WORRY ABOUT THE INSURANCE WE
HAVE NOT ENDINGN FE IBRUARY,
THAT I WILL BE ABLE TO KEEP
GETTING TREATMENT.
THERE'S METHADONE, WHICH IS A
PAIN PILL FOR MY SPINAL
DEGENERATION.
WHEN I WAS FIRST DIAGNOSED
WHEN I WAS FIRST DIAGNOSED--
WELL OBVIOUSLY THE FIRST
REACTION WAS TO WISH IT HADN'T
HAPPENED-- BUT THE SECOND
REACTION WAS TO WISH IT HAD
HAPPENED SOMEPLACE CIVILIZED,
LIKE FRANCE, OR CANADA, WHERE
YOU GET HEALTHCARE KIND OF AS A
MATTER OF COURSE, AND IT ISN'T
AS EXPENSIVE AS IT IS HERE.
THE PROBLEM, I THINK, IS AND
FRANKLY I WAS A LITTLE BIT LIKE
THAT IF THEY'RE HEALTHY, THEY'RE
GOING TO SAY HEALTHY FOREVER,
AND EVEN THOUGH I HAD INSURANCE,
I THOUGHT I WAS GOING TO STAY
HEALTHY FOREVER.
PEOPLE WHO OPPOSE IT, I THINK
VERY DEFINITELY DON'T HAVE THE
BIGGER PICTURE, THEY DON'T SEE
THAT IT CAN HAPPEN TO THEM, AND
EITHER THEY DON'T CARE, OR THEY
DON'T SEE WHAT IT DOES TO OTHER
PEOPLE.
PEOPLE ARE ONE DIAGNOSES AWAY,
AND THEY DON'T REALIZE IT TO A
LARGE DEGREE, BUT IT'S VERY
TRUE.
WHAT I TELL PEOPLE WHO OPPOSE
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT IS FINE.
IF YOU WANT TO ABOLISH IT, YOU
CAN PAY MY MEDICAL BILLS.
THAT WOULD BE WONDERFUL.
GIVE ME A MAILING ADDRESS, AND I
WILL FORWARD MY BILLS TO YOU.
>> Wooduff: MARY AGNES CAREY OF
KAISER HEALTH NEWS IS STILL WITH
US, TO HELP PUT MS. MASSON'S
STORY IN PERSPECTIVE.
I WANT TO SAY, OUR HEART GO OUT
TO HER.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: IS AND WE
APPRECIATE HER TALKING TO US.
TELL US, WHY IS THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT A WELCOME THING FOR
SOMEONE LIKE HER?
>> BECAUSE IN THE INDIVIDUAL
MARKET BEFORE THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT SHE WOULD MOST LIKELY
BE REJECTED FOR COVERAGE,
BECAUSE SHE HAS CANCER AND HER
MEDICAL EXPENSES ARE SO HIGH.
THIS IS A PROBLEM ABOUT 20% OR
SO OF PEOPLE IN THE INDIVIDUAL
MARKET APPLYING FOR COVERAGE GET
THESE REJECTION, BASED ON
MEDICAL STATUS.
THAT IS NO LONGER ALLOWED.
YOU CAN'T BE REJECTED BECAUSE OF
MEDICAL CONDITION.
>> Woodruff: THIS IS A STORY
THAT HASN'T BEEN TOLD I THINK IN
MANY RESPECTS.
PEOPLE ARE AWARE OF IT, I THINK,
BUT WE DON'T HEAR ABOUT IT THAT
OFTEN.
>> SHE PUT IT OUT VERY WELL.
WE'RE ALL ONE DIAGNOSIS AWAY
FROM THIS SORT OF THING, AND
UNLESS YOU'VE EXPERIENCED IT
DIRECTLY IN YOUR FLEAM OR
PERSONALLY YOU MAY NOT THINK
ABOUT THE HARDSHIP THAT COMES
FROM THIS KIND OF DIAGNOSIS, AND
THE FACT THAT YOU CAN EXAWCHT
YOUR LIMITS PRETTY QUICKLY ON
COVERAGE AND IF YOU HAD TO GO
OUT AND BUY IT YOURSELF YOU
CAN'T GET IT.
>> Woodruff: LITERALLY, MARY
AGNES, WHAT WOULD SOMEONE'S
OPTION BE IN HER SITUATION IF IT
HAD NOT BEEN FOR THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT?
WHAT COULD SHE HAVE DONE?
>> SHE TALKED ABOUT COBRA, WHICH
IS COVERAGE YOU CAN BUY FROM AN
EMPLOYER.
ONCE THAT RAN OUT, SHE COULD GO
TO AN INSURANCE AGENT TO TRY TO
BUY COVERAGE IN THE INDIVIDUAL
MARKET.
SHE MIGHT HAVE BEEN DENIED.
SHE MIGHT HAVE GONE INTO
SOMETHING CALLED A HIVE RISK
POOL.
THEY'RE STATE RUN IN MANY CASES
AND THEY ARE THERE TO HELP
HANDLE THE HIGH RISK BUT THAT
WOULD ALSO BE AN EXTREMELY
EXPENSIVE OPTION FOR HER.
DEPENDING ON HER FAMILY INCOME,
THEY MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE
QUALIFIED FOR MEDICAID.
AGAIN, ALL OF THESE ARE REALLY
TOUGH CHOICES.
>> Woodruff: AND SHE MENTIONED
HER HUSBAND'S SITUATION.
SO MUCH DEPENDS ON WHERE YOU
LIVE, YOUR SPOUSE OR YOUR
FAMILY'S SITUATION.
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: IT'S NOT A COOKIE
CUTTER ONE SIZE FITS ALL.
>> IT'S VERY MUCH GEARED TOWARDS
YOUR CIRCUMSTANCES.
THAT IS THE MILLION UNDERWRITING
GOING AWAY WITH THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
>> Woodruff: TALK, MARY AGNES,
ABOUT HOW BIG A PART OF THE
ENTIRE MARKET OF PEOPLE, NUMBER
OF PEOPLE LOOKING FOR COVERAGE
ARE PEOPLE LIKE MISMONSON.
>> YOU HAVE ABOUT 14 MILLION
PEOPLE ON THE INDIVIDUAL MARKET.
THAT REPRESENTS ABOUT 5% OF
EVERYONE WHO IS INSURED.
OF THE 14 MILLION, OF THOSE WHO
APPLY, ABOUT 20% WOULD BE
REJECTED BASED ON THEIR HEALTH
CARE STATUS.
SO IT'S A SMALL GROUP, BUT A
VERY POWERFUL GROUP BECAUSE OF
THE DHAJ THIS DOES IF YOU DON'T
HAVE HEALTH COVERAGE AND WHAT IT
DOES FOR YOUR MEDICAL TREATMENT,
WHAT IT DOES FOR YOUR PERSONAL
FINANCES.
WHAT'S INTERESTINGS TO ME IS IS
THIS PROVISION, EVEN PEOPLE WHO
DISLIKE THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT,
THEY LIKE THE IDEA THAT SOMEONE
CANNOT BE REJECTED ON THE BASIS
OF A MEDICAL CONDITION FOR
HEALTH INSURANCE.
IT'S A PROVISION OF THE LAW THAT
POLLS VERY WELL.
>> Woodruff: SO IS IT
LITERALLY THE CASE THAT YOU ARE
ACCEPTED UNDER THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, NO MATTER WHAT YOUR
HEALTH CONDITION IS?
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: NO MATTER HOW FAR
ALONG AN ILLNESS MAY BE?
>> THAT'S CORRECT.
THEY MAY HAVE SOME ADJUSTMENTS
BASED ON YOUR AGE OR WHETHER OR
NOT YOU SMOKE OR LIVE IN THE
COUNTRY, BUT ARE YOU ALLOWED TO
HAVE COVERAGE IN THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT.
AN IMPORTANT THINK TO KNOW, AS
WE TALKED ABOUT LAST NIGHT OF
NIESHT THE WHOLE STIRK SHOCK
IDEA, THIS I THIS IS ONE OF THE
PROVISIONS DRIVING UP THE COST
FOR HEALTH PREMIUMS.
IT'S AN EXPENSIVE PROVISION BUT
THIS PLUS THE ESSENTIAL HEALTH
BENEFITS ARE TWO OF THE FACTORS
BEHIND THE STICKER SHOCK WE'RE
HEARING ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: PART OF THE
LARGER PICTURE HERE, THOUGH SWE
KNOW FOR THIS NEW LAW TO WORK,
NOT EVERYONE CAN HAVE-- CAN BE
SICK.
THERE HAVE TO BE HEALTHY PEOPLE
SIGNING UP, TOO.
>> RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: EXPLAIN HOW THAT
WORKS AND THAT BALANCE WORKS.
>> IT'S A BALANCE OF RISK.
THE HEALTHIER INDIVIDUALS GET
INTO THE SAME RISK POOL AS THE
SICKER INDIVIDUALS AND HELP
BALANCE THE RISK OUT OVER TIME.
THAT'S WHY YOU NEED SOMEONE LIKE
MARTHA WHO IS REALLY CIRC WHO
MAY OR MAY NOT HAVE PROBLEMS
SIGNING UP WITH
HEALTHCARE.GOV, THEY'RE GOING
TO HANG IN THERE TO GET
COVERAGE.
THE FOLKS THEY ALSO NEED TO COME
INTO THE RISK PEOPLE ARE PEOPLE
WHO CURRENTLY HAVE COVERAGE AND
ARE HEALTHIER, MAY HAVE HAD
FEWER MEDICAL PROBLEMS, BUT STAY
IN HEALTH COVERAGE TO HELP
BALANCE THAT RISK.
>> Woodruff: BUT, OF COURSE,
FOR THOSE WHO ARE HEALTHY, IT'S
HARDER TO-- AS YOU'VE JUST BEEN
SAYING-- IT'S HARDER FOR THEM
TOND WHY IT IS SOMETHING FOR
THEM TO SERIOUSLY CONSIDER
SIGNING UP.
>> RIGHT, AND IF THEY'VE DONE
WELL IN THE INDIVIDUAL MARKET AS
A HEALTHIER PERSON, THEIR
PREMIUMS MAY INCREASE.
THAT WAS THE WOMAN WE TALKED
ABOUT LAST NIGHT.
HER PREMIUMS ARE INCREASING.
SHE HAD A FEW MEDICAL ISSUES
THIS YEAR BUT OVERALL HAD BEEN A
HEALTHY PERSON.
IF YOU HAD LOWER PREMIUMS IN THE
INDIVIDUAL MARKET AND YOU HAVE
BEEN HEALTHIER, YOU MAY PAY MORE
UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
>> Woodruff: PULLING BACK
AGAIN, AND THINKING ABOUT WHAT
WE TALKED ABOUT A FOOT OF FEW
MINUTES AGO ABOUT WHAT WE
LEARNED TODAY ABOUT THE
ENROLLMENT NUMBERS, AS THE
INSURANCE COMPANIES WATCH ALL
THIS THAT IS HAPPENING, WHERE
THE ENROLLMENT NUMBERS, WITH THE
STORIES WE'RE TELLING ABOUT THE
INDIVIDUALS, LIKE THE WOMAN WE
HEARD FROM LAST NIGHT AND
MISMONSON, HOW DOES IT AFFECT
THE BEHAVIOR OF THESE COMPANIES
AND THEIR ABILITO
INSURANCE POLICIES?
>> THEY'VE BASED THEIR PREMIUMS
FOR 2014, WHEN THE EXCHANGES
BEGIN AND THE MEDICAID EXPANSION
BEGINS AND SO ON, BASED ON AN
ASSUMPTION THAT SICK PEOPLE
WOULD COME IN AND HEALTH PEOPLE
WOULD COME IN, THAT PEOPLE
CURRENTLY IN PLANS THAT ARE NOT
DEEMED TO BE UP TO SNUFF WITH
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, THAT
THEY'LL TRANSITION TO NEW PLANS.
SO ALL THIS CONVERSATION WE
HEARD ABOUT, FOR EXAMPLE,
LETTING PEOPLE STAY ON THEIR
CURRENT HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS,
THAT IS GOING TO UNDERMINE THE
RISK POOL, AND COULD AFFECT
PREMIUMS IN 2015 AND BEYOND.
SO INSURERS ARE VERY CLOSELY
WATCHING THIS.
>> Woodruff: AS ARE WE ALL AND
I KNOW ARE YOU.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: MARY AGNES CAREY,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> SURE, THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: NOW, WHAT PEOPLE NEED
TO KNOW ABOUT NEW GUIDELINES
CONCERNING CHOLESTEROL-LOWERING
DRUGS.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS THE STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE
RECOMMENDATIONS-- BY THE
NATION'S LEADING HEART
ORGANIZATIONS-- ARE THE FIRST
NEW CHOLESTEROL GUIDELINES
RELEASED SINCE 2004.
FOR DECADES, DOCTORS HAVE
PRESCRIBED CHOLESTROL-LOWERING
STATINS TO THEIR PATIENTS, BASED
ON THEIR LABORATORY NUMBERS.
BUT THE NEW RECOMMENDATIONS
FOCUS ON RISK FACTORS,
INCLUDING WHETHER INDIVIDUALS
HAVE DIABETES OR HEART DISEASE,
OR IF THEY HAVE A LEVEL OF SO-
CALLED BAD CHOLESTEROL, KNOWN AS
L.D.L.-- THAT'S 190 OR HIGHER.
DR. HARLAN KRUMHOLZ IS A
CARDIOLOGIST AND A PROFESSOR OF
MEDICINE AT THE YALE SCHOOL OF
MEDICINE WHO HAS LONG STUDIED
THIS ISSUE.
DR. KRUMHOLZ, HOW SIGNIFICANT
ARE THESE NEW GUIDELINES?
>> THESE GUIDELINES ARE
PROFOUND.
THEY'RE A MARKED DIFFERENCE FROM
THE PRIOR GUIDELINES.
AGAIN, THE ONES WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ARE ONES ABOUT DECISION
ABOUT THE USE OF MEDICATIONS.
AND WE REALLY HAVE CHANGED FROM
A SINGULAR FOCUS ON TARGETS,
PUSHING PEOPLE TO GET THEIR
CHOLESTEROL LEVELS TO A CERTAIN
POINT, TO THINKING MORE
HOLISTICALLY ABOUT THE PATIENT,
THEIR RISK AND WHAT THEY STAND
TO BENEFIT FROM THE USE OF DRUG
THERAPY.
>> Suarez: WHEN IT DOMS
L.D.L., IS THAT A BAD MEASURE?
SHOULD WE NOT BE KEEPING THAT IN
CONTROL?
>> FIRST I WANT TO SAY THE
GUIDELINE GETTING ALL THE
ATTENTION IS THE ONE ABOUT
DRUGS.
WE REMAIN STEADFAST IN OUR
ADVOCACY FOR PEOPLE WHO FUR SUE
HEALTHY LIFESTYLES AND WE PREFER
NOT TO USE MEDICATIONS AT ALL.
WE LIKE THE POPULATION TO LOWER
THEIR RISK JUST BY BEING
HEALTHIER, BY BEING MORE ACTIVE
AND ACHIEVING THE RIGHT WEIGHTS
AND NOT SMOKE.
BUT WITH REGARD TO THESE DRUGS
AND THINKING ABOUT CHOLESTEROL,
THE CHOLESTEROL HYPOTHESIS, THE
IDEA THAT CHOLESTEROL IS
IMPORTANT IN HEART DISEASE
REMAINS.
IN CHOLESTEROL, THE BAD
CHOLESTEROL AND THE GOOD
CHOLESTEROL TURN OUT TO BE
PREDICTORS OF HEART DISEASE.
BUT WHAT WE'VE RECOGNIZED IS
MAYBE WE'VE BEEN TREATING SOME
OF THE WRONG PEOPLE.
BECAUSE BY A SINGULAR FOCUS ON
YOUR LAB TEST, WE HAVE PERHAPS
OFTEN BEEN TREATING PEOPLE WITH
MILD ELEVATIONS OF BAD
CHOLESTEROL WHO WERE OTHERWISE
AT LOW RISK.
AND HAD RELATIVELY LITTLE TO
GAIN.
AND THERE HAVE BEEN OTHERS WITH
BENEFITTED FROM SOME OF THESE
MEDICATIONS BUT WHO WE MAY HAVE
NEGLECTD NOT RECOGNIZING THEY
HAD A LOT TO GAIN.
>> LET'S TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
THOSE CONGRATULATIONS.
WHO NOW QUALIFIES UNDER THE NEW
RISK CALCULATOR?
>> SO, THE WAY THAT THIS WORKS--
AND THERE IS A CALCULATION, BUT
I THINK IT'S GOOD TO THINK ABOUT
THIS AS A GENERAL FOR INSTANCE
PEL, TRYING TOIDENTIFY PEOPLE WT
TO GAIN-- THAT IS, THOSE PEOPLE
FOR WHOM MEDICATION IS LIKELY TO
LOWER THE RISK SO IT'S WORTH
TAKING THE MEDICATION EVERY DAY,
WORTH EXPOSING YOURSELF TO SOME
OF VERSADE EFFECTS.
THEY SAID, LOOK, IF YOUR
CHOLESTEROL IS MARKEDLY
ELEVATED, THAT SHOULD PRABLYOB
QUALIFY YOU.
BY DEFINITION, YOU'RE AT HIGH
RISK IF YOUR BAD CHOLESTEROL,
THE L.D.L. CHOLESTEROL IS
MARKEDLY REL ELEVATED.
ALTHOUGH NOT EVERYONE WITH
DIABETES IS AT HIGH RISK, IF
GENERAL WE TEND TO THINK OF IT
AS ELEVATING YOUR RISK, AND WE
THINK PEOPLE WITH DIABETES WOULD
BE BEST SERVED BY ALSO BEING ON
THESE DRUGS.
BY THERUGS"
MEANS STATINS.
ANOTHER PIECE OF THE GUIDELINES
WAS DE-EMPHASIZE THE DRUGS WE
HAVE THAT LOWER L.D.L.
CHOLESTEROL BUT ARE UNKNOWN WITH
RESPECT TO THEIR BENEFIT, LIKE
ZETIA, OR SOME OF THE OTHER
DRUGS, THE NONSTATIN DERISION
DRUGZ.
THEY SAID IF YOU HAVE DIABETES,
THAT'S ANOTHER GROUP THAT MIGHT
BE MORE LIKELY TO BENEFIT.
AND AFTER THAT, THEY SAID IF YOU
DON'T HAVE DIABETES OR MARKEDLY
ELEVATED CHOLESTEROL, LET'S TAKE
A LOOK AT ALL OF YOUR RISK
FACTORS AND FIGURE OUT IF YOU'RE
IN A RANGE WHERE IT MIGHT BE
WORTH IT FOR TO YOU TAKE A
STATIN.
AND THEN THEY HAVE INTRODUCED A
CALCULATOR THAT'S ONLINE THAT
PEOPLE CAN USE.
BUT THE GENERAL PRINCIPLE IS
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT AM I
SOMEONE WHO IS LIKELY TO HAVE A
BIG BENEFIT FROM TAKING THESE
DRUGS.
BECAUSE IF YOU'RE NOT, AND
ESPECIALLY IF THE BENEFIT'S
REALLY SMALL, IT MAY NOT BE
WORTH IT TO YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: HOW
SIGNIFICANT IS THE POPULATION
SIZE THAT MAY NOT BE PRESCRIBED
STATINS ANYMORE-- OR I SHOULD
SAY THE ADDITIONAL MEDICATIONS?
>> I THINK THERE'S SOME
CONTROVERSY RIGHT NOW.
MY OWN VIEW IS THAT THE
GUIDELINES ARE JUST GUIDELINES.
THEY'RE HELPING US TO THINK
ABOUT WHAT THESE EXPERTS WHEN
THEY SAT IN THE ROOM FELT WERE
THE RIGHT THRESHOLDS FOR
TREATMENT-- WHERE IS MY RISK
HIGH ENOUGH TO TREAT?
THE TRUTH IS WE SHOULD BE
PERSONALIZING THOSE DECISION.
THAT TAKES PLACE BETWEEN A
PATIENT AND THEIR DOCTOR.
AND IT-- EACH PERSON MAY HAVE A
DIFFERENT PERCEPTION ON WHETHER
IT'S WORTH IT TO BE TREATED.
MY SENSE OF WHAT'S HIGH RISK
THAT WOULD MAKE IT WORTH IT FOR
ME TO TAKE A MEDICATION MAY BE
VERY DIFFERENT THAN YOURS.
FOR THIS GUIDELINE, THEY SETTLED
ON A NUMBER.
THEY SAID IF YOUR RISK OVER 10
YEARS OF HEART ATTACKS AND
STROKES WAS 7.5% OR GREATER--
ABOUT ONE IN 12, ONE IN 13--
THEY THOUGHT IT WAS PROBABLY
WORTH IT FOR TO YOU TAKE A
STATIN.
AND THEY RECOMMENDED IT.
MY OWN VIEW IS THAT DEPEND.
I MEAN TFENDZ ON YOU, AND IT
SHOULD BE PERSONALIZED.
I DON'T KNOW AT THE END OF THE
DAY WHETHER MORE PEOPLE OR FEWER
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE TAKE
STATINS, BUT I DO KNOW WE'LL BE
MAKE WISER CHOICES IF WE'RE
TAILORING OUR TREATMENTS TO WHAT
YOU STAND TO GAIN.
AND IF YOU'RE MAKING AN INFORMED
CHOICE BASE ODE WHETHER IT'S
REALLY WORTH IT TO YOU, WHETHER
YOU'RE LIKELY TO BENEFIT.
THAT'S REALLY WHERE WE'RE
TURNING FROM A SINGULAR EMPHASIS
ON THE LAB TEST TO TRYING TO
LOOK OUGHT AS A WHOLE ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT YOU'RE GOING TO
BE ABLE TO AVOID A HEART ATTACK
OR STROKE AND HOW BIG IS THE
BENEFIT FOR YOU?
HOW LIKELY IS IT YOU'RE GOING TO
BE THE ONE WHO WILL AVOID
PRATHAT PROBLEM?
>> Sreenivasan: IF WE INCREASE
THE POOL OF PEOPLE WHO MIGHT
QUALIFY FOR STATINS, IS THERE A
CHANCE THAT WE'LL HAVE INCREASED
NUMBERS OF ADVERSE SIDE EFFECTS?
>> WELL, THESE DRUGS ARE FAIRLY
SAFE.
LOOK, ANY DRUG WE TAKE HAS THE
POTENTIAL FOR ADVERSE EFFECTS,
AND STAINTS, LIKE ALL DRUGS, DO
HAVE SOME RARE ADVERSE EFFECTS
AND THEY HAVE SOME OTHERS THAT
MAY CAUSE PROBLEMS.  WE KNOW
THEY CAN SOMETIMES RAISE SUGAR
LEVELS, GLUCOSE LEVELS.
BUT THE TRIALS ARE FAIRLY
UNEQUIVOCAL.
THESE DRUGS, BY AND LARM, LOWER
RISK, AND THEY LOWER RISK BY
ABOUT 20%.
THEY ARE TRIED AND TRUE.
THEY'RE AMONG THE BEST DRUGS
THAT WE HAVE.
THAT BEING SAID, FOR SOMEONE WHO
HAS GOT LITTLE TO GAIN, I DON'T
EYE DON'T THINK THAT THEY SHOULD
TAKE THEM.
THESE AREN'T FOR EVERYONE.
I DON'T THINK THEY SHOULD GO IN
THE WATER.
AND IT REALLY IS A PERSONAL
CHOICE, WHETHER YOU THINK THE
POTENTIAL BENEFIT IS BIG ENOUGH.
BUT YOU'RE RIGHT-- IF WE TREAT
LOWER PEOPLE-- AND IN THE PAST I
THINK WE'VE DONE THAT BY
FOCUSING ON THE LAB TEST-- THOSE
PEOPLE MAY HAVE MORE HARM THAN
GOOD.
THAT'S WHY WE HAVE TO FOCUS ON
THOSE MOST LIKELY TO OF B
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
HARLAN KRUMHOLZ, THANK YOU SO
MUCH FOR YOUR TIME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: TENSIONS HAVE BEEN
MOUNTING BETWEEN THE U.S. AND
ISRAEL, OVER THE IRAN NUCLEAR
TALKS AND RECENT STUMBLING
BLOCKS IN PEACE NEGOTIATIONS
WITH THE PALESTINIANS.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> WHILE I UNDERSTAND THE
SKEPTICISM, I DON'T SHARE IT AND
I DON'T THINK WE HAVE TIME FOR
IT.
>> Brown: THAT WAS SECRETARY OF
STATE JOHN KERRY IN JULY,
ANNOUNCING THE RESTART OF
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN TALKS, AIMED
AT REACHING A TWO-STATE SOLUTION
BY NEXT MAY.
>> I'M CONVINCED FROM MY
CONVERSATIONS TODAY WITH PRIME
MINISTER NETANYAHU AS WELL AS
WITH PRESIDENT ABBAS THAT THIS
IS NOT MISSION IMPOSSIBLE.
THIS CAN HAPPEN.
>> Brown: AND THAT WAS KERRY IN
BETHLEHEM LAST WEEK, PRESSING
FOR PROGRESS DESPITE RISING
TENSIONS.
ONLY TWO DAYS EARLIER, ISRAEL
HAD ANNOUNCED PLANS TO CONSTRUCT
1,700 NEW HOMES FOR JEWISH
SETTLERS IN THE WEST BANK.
PALESTINIANS ANGRILY ACCUSED THE
ISRAELIS OF NOT NEGOTIATING IN
GOOD FAITH.
>> ( translated ): WE WANT PEACE
AND WE WANT NEGOTIATIONS BUT
PEACE SHOULD BE FAIR, AND
GUARANTEE THE RIGHT OF RETURN,
SELF-DETERMINATION, A
PALESTINIAN STATE, THE RELEASE
OF ALL PRISONERS, AND SETTLEMENT
EXPSIONAN SHOULD STOP.
>> Brown: TER AFMEETING WITH
KERRY, ISRAELI PRIME MINISTER
BENJAMIN NETANYAHU CHARGED IT'S
THE PALESTINIANS WHO'VE FAILED
TO LIVE UP TO THEIR PROMISES.
>> I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THE
PROGRESS BECAUSE I SEE THAT THE
PALESTINIANS CONTINUING WITH
INCITEMENT, CONTINUING TO CREATE
ARTIFICIAL CRISIS, CONTINUING TO
AVOID AND RUN AWAY FROM THE
HISTORIC DECISNS TIOHAT ARE
NEEDED TOAKE  MA GENUINE PEACE.
>> Brown: BUT ON ISRAELI
TELEVISION, KERRY BLUNTLY WARNED
OF WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN IF THERE IS
NO PROGRESS.
>> THE ALTERNATIVE TO GETTING
BACK TO THEALKS T IS THE
POTENTIAL OF CHAOS.
I MEAN, DOES ISRAEL WANT A THIRD
INTIFADA?
>> Brown: THEN, YESTERDAY, THE
HOUSING MINISTRY ANNOUNCED PLANS
TO BUILD ANOTHER 24,000 HOMES IN
DISPUTED TERRITORY.
BUT WITHIN HOURS, NETANYAHU
HALTED THE MOVE, SAYING IT WOULD
CREATE UNNECESSARY CONFRONTATION
WITH THE INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY.
TODAY, PALESTINE'S CHIEF
NEGOTIATIOR SAID THE DAMAGE HAS
BEEN DONE AND THAT HIS TEAM IS
RESIGNING.
HANGING OVER ALL THIS ARE THE
ONGOING TALKS WITH IRAN ABOUT
ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM, WATCHED
WARILY BY THE ISRAELIS AND OTHER
KEY REGIONAL PLAYERS.
SO WHERE DOES THE PEACE PROCESS
STAND, AND WHAT IS THE STATE OF
U.S.-ISRAELI RELATIONS?
WE'RE JOINED BY ROBERT SATLOFF,
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE
WASHINGTON INSTITUTE FOR NEAR
EAST POLICY.
AND HUSSEIN IBISH, SENIOR FELLOW
AT THE AMERICAN TASK FORCE ON
PALESTINE.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Brown: ROBERT SATLOFF,
LET'S PICK UP ON THAT LAST PART,
THE IRANIAN ELEMENT.
HOW LARGE A SHADOW DOES THAT
CAST OVER ANY POTENTIAL PEACE
TALKS BETWEEN ISRAEL AND THE
PALESTINIANS?
>> IT CASTAISE VERY, VERY BROAD
SHADOW.
WE ARE IN UNCHARTERED WATERS IN
THE U.S.-ISRAEL RELATIONSHIP
TODAY.
>> Brown: UNCHARTERED WATERS.
AFTER ALL THESE YEARS?
>> AFTER ALL THESE YEARS, AFTER
ALL THE DIFFERENT UPS AND DOWNS,
THIS IS A NEW SCENARIO IN WHICH
THE UNITED STATES AND ISRAEL ARE
AT LOGGERHEADS OVER AN IMMEDIATE
NATIONAL SECURITY INITIATIVE OF
THE UNITED STATES-- NAMELY, THE
NEGOTIATION OF A FIRST STEP
AGREEMENT WITH IRAN.
THE PRIME MINISTER OF ISRAEL
SAYS IT'S DANGEROUS-- NOT JUST
FOR AMERICAN INTEREST BUT FOR
HIS INTEREST.
THE UNITED STATES PRESIDENT AND
THE SPOKESMAN FOR THE WHITE
HOUSE HAS SAID THAT IF YOU ARE
OPPOSED TO WHAT IS BEING PUT ON
THE TABLE, ARE YOU A WARMONGER.
AND SO THIS IS A CLASH UNLIKE
ANY I'VE SEEN IN 30 YEARS IN
WASHINGTON.
>> Brown: AND YOUR SENSE IS
THAT HOLDS00, IN A SENSE, ANY
PEACE TALKS WITH THE
PALESTINIANS?
>> TO BE PRECISE, ISRAEL'S
CONFIDENCE IN AMERICA AS A
MEDIATOR IN THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN NEGOTIATIONS
IS TOTALLY DERIVATIVE OF ITS
CONFIDENCE IN THE IRAN TALKS.
>> Brown: LET'S GET HUSSEIN
IBISH'S ASSESSMENT OF THAT.
>> I THINK THAT'S A VERY GOOD
SUMMATION OF WHAT THE PRIME
MINISTER OF ISRAEL'S OFFICE
THINKS AND SAYS.
THEY HAVE, I THINK, FRAMED
EVERYTHING TO DO WITH THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN
NEGOTIATIONS, INCLUDING THE
CANCELLATION OF THIS
EXTRAORDINARY 24,000-UNIT PLAN,
INCLUDING THIS VERY SENSITIVE
E-1 CONSTRUCTION AREA, WHICH
WOULD BE A STRATEGIC GAME
CHANGER ON THE GROUND, IN TERMS
OF THEIR CONFIDENCE IN THE
UNITED STATES DERIVING FROM-- IN
OTHER WORDS, EVERYTHING GETS
REFRACTED THROUGH IRAN.
BUT THAT IS NOT THE AMERICAN
PERSPECTIVE.
THAT IS THE ISRAELIERSP PECTIVE,
AND IT MIGHT BE AN
UNDERSTANDABLE ONE, BUT THE
AMERICAN PERSPECTIVE, WHICH HAS
BEEN ARTICULATED BY PRESIDENT
OBAMA MANY TIMES AND BY
SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY, IS
THAT IF THE TWO ISSUES ARE
LINKED, THEY'RE ACTUALLY LINKED
THE OTHER WAY AROUND.
IN OTHER WORDS, THAT MAKING
PROGRESS BETWEEN ISRAEL AND THE
PALESTINIANS HELPS THE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY DEAL
MORE ROBUSTLY WITH IRAN.
I ACTUALLY THINK THAT EVERYTHING
IS LINKED TOGETHER.
BUT SUCH A STRAIGHTFORWARD
BINARY LINKAGE, AS WAS DESCRIBED
BY MR. SATLOFF, AND AS IS BEING
PROVIDED BY PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU, IS THE KIND OF CRUDE
LINKAGE THAT WE'VE BEEN TRYING
TO GET AWAY FROM FOR THE PAST 20
YEARS.
>> Brown: GO AHEAD.
>> IT'S NOT THAT THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN ISSUE IS IN
ANY WAY LINKED TO THE IRAN
ISSUE.
THAT'S NOT IT
WHAT IS THE CONNECTION IS THAT
ANY CONFIDENCE THAT ISRAEL WILL
HAVE IN AN AMERICAN MEDIATION,
ANY IDEAS THAT THE UNITED STATES
WILL PUT ON THE TABLE TO SOLVE,
SAY, THE SECURITY CHALLENGES,
WHICH AMERICA'S BEEN LOOKED TO,
TO PROVIDE ANSWERS WILL BE
TOTALLY DEPENDENT THAT AMERICA
IS LOOKING OUT FOR THE BEST
SECURITY INTERESTS IN THE
BIGGEST ISSUE FACING WORLD
TODAY, WHICH IS THE IRAN
NEGOTIATIONS.
>> Brown: BRING THE
PALESTINIAN SIDE INTO THIS.
WHERE DOES THAT LEAVE THEM AND
WHAT ROLE ARE THEY PLAYING AT
THIS POINT?
>> THERE'S NOT MUCH THEY CAN DO
VIS-A-VIS IRAN.
THEY REALLY ARE NOT PART OF THE
EQUATION, AND THAT SORT OF
UNDERSCORES THE EXCEPT TO WHICH
WHILE YOU'RE ABSOLUTELY RIGHT,
THERE'S A QUESTION OF CONFIDENCE
IN NOT ONLY THAT ISRAEL HAS,
SAUDI ARABIA HAS, AND OTHER
REGIONAL ALLIES HAVE IN THE
UNITED STATES HAS BEEN SOMEWHAT
DISRUPTED BY VARIOUS DIFFERENT
POLICY SCENARIOS OVER RECENT
MONTHS.
IT'S STILL THE CASE THAT THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICT IS
A PRESSING NEED THAT EXISTS IN A
REGIONAL CONTEXT, NEEDS TO BE
RESOLVED IN A REGIONAL CONTEXT,
BUT THAT ALSO CANNOT BE SHELVED.
IT CAN'T BE SAID BY ANYONE
SERIOUSLY, THAT PALESTINIANS
JUST HAVE TO WAIT UNTIL THE
NUCLEAR ISSUE WITH IRAN IS
RESOLVED, OR THAT SOMEHOW THAT'S
A KEY.
AND EVEN IF IT WERE A QUESTION
OF, SAY, BRINGING THE SOWDEZ
INTO THE MIX THROUGH THE ARAB
PEACE INITIATIVES OR BRINGING
EGYPT INTO THE MIX BECAUSE OF
THEIR RELATIVE IMPORTANCE IN THE
ARAB WORLD AND THEIR CONTROL
OVER THE GAZA CROSSING, IT WOULD
STILL BE AN ISSUE THAT HAS TO BE
DEALT WITH.
THERE ARE REALLY IMPORTANT
THINGS THAT NEED DOING HERE ON
THEIR OWN.
>> Brown: BRING THE U.S. BACK
INTO THE MIX.
BECAUSE WE SAW SECRETARY OF
STATE KERRY WITH SOME PRETTY
HARD LANGUAGE, HARSH LANGUAGE,
REFERRING TO A POTENTIAL THIRD
INTIFADA.
HOW MUCH LONCH DOES HE HAVE IN
THIS CASE?
>> I THINK IT'S QUITE
REGRETTABLE WHAT HAPPENED OVER
THE LAST 10 DAYS AS WE SAW A
U.S.-ISRAEL BREACH ON BOTH
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN ISSUES AND
THAN BE THIS
WAY.
I THINK IN RETROSPECT, THE
SECRETARY PROBABLY REGRETS
SUGGESTING THE BONA FIDIES OF
ISRAEL, THE ISRAELI--
>> Brown: THAT'S HOW IT WAS
TAKEN.
>> WHEN YOU WANT A THIRD
INTFEUDA YOU'RE NOT SERIOUS.
WHEN YOU TOOK THE SETTLEMENT
ISSUE-- I'M NOT GOING TO DEFEND
ISRAELI SETTLEMENT POLICY, BUT
WHAT THE SECRETARY DID IS HE
TOOK THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF 1900
DEPARTMENTS, ONLY 200 OF WHICH
ARE EAST OF THE SECURITY FENCE,
EAST OF THE BARRIER, AND TURNED
THIS INTO THE GREATEST ATTACK ON
THE POTENTIAL FOR PEACE EVER.
IT'S-- IT WAS-- IT WASN'T WISE
AT A MOMENT WHEN HE NEEDED
ISRAEL'S UNDERSTANDING FROM WHAT
WAS ABOUT TO HAPPEN WITH IRAN?
AND NOW ISRAEL THINKS, MY GOSH
OIRAN, THEY'RE GOING IN A
DIFFERENT DIRECTION.
ON THE PEACE PROCESS THEY'RE IN
A DIFFERENT DIRECTION.
MAYBE THEY'RE REALLY NOT THE
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP THAT WE
THOUGHT WE HAD.
>> WELL, THAT'S GOT TO CUT BOTH
WAYS.
OBVIOUSLY, IF ISRAEL'S
DISAPPOINTED IN THE UNITED
STATES, IT'S VERY LIKELY THE
UNITED STATES IS DISAPPOINTED
WITH ISRAEL.
LOOK, OUR REGIONAL ALLIES--
ISRAEL, SAUDI ARABIA, EGYPT--
THESE ARE REGIONAL POWERS WITH
REGIONAL INTERESTS.
WE ARE A GLOBAL POWER WITH
GLOBAL INTERESTS.
IT'S UNDERSTANDABLE IF ISRAEL IS
OBSESSED WITH IRAN, AND THINKS
ONLY IN TERMS OF IRANIAN ISSUES.
THE UNITED STATES CAN'T DO THAT.
WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH MULTIPLE
ISSUES.
WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH SYRIA.
WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CRISIS.
WE HAVE TO DEAL WITH REPAIRING
OUR RELATIONS WITH SAUDI ARABIA
AND EGYPT.
AND MANY OTHER THINGS, ALL OVER
THE WORLD.
SO YOU'VE GOT TO COME BACK TO
THE ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN FILE AS
ONE THAT THE UNITED STATES TAKES
SERIOUSLY ON ITS OWN.
IT CANNOT BE HELD HOSTAGE.
>> Brown: VERY BRIEFLY, DO YOU
THINK THAT WILL HAPPEN?
>> I DO, ACTUALLY.
I THINK THERE IS AN ABILITY THAT
THE UNITED STATES HAS TO MAKE
THIS ISSUE-- TO BRING THIS ISSUE
TO THE FORE.
IF THE UNITED STATES WANTS TO
FOCUS ON IT, THE PARTIES WILL
FOCUS ON IT.
AND I THINK CLEARLY THE
INTERVENTION TO STOP THIS
SETTLEMENT EXPANSION IS INSPIRED
BY WASHINGTON IN ONE WAY OR
ANOTHER.
>> Brown: OKAY, WE ARE GOING
TO HAVE TO LEAVE IT THERE, BUT
WE'LL KEEP WATCHING, ROBERT
SATLOFF, ANDUSSE HIN IBISH,
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
THE TYPHOON DEATH TOLL IN THE
PHILIPPINES NEARED 2,350, AND
SURVIVORS RANSACKED WHOLE
WAREHOUSES FOR FOOD.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
REPORTED FEWER THAN 27,000
PEOPLE ENROLLED FOR HEALTH
INSURANCE, DURING OCTOBER, ON
THE PROBLEM-PLAGUED FEDERAL
WEBSITE.
NEARLY 80,000 OTHERS SIGNED UP
ON STATE EXCHANGES.
AND SECRETARY OF STATE KERRY
URGED CONGRESS NOT TO IMPOSE NEW
SANCTIONS ON IRAN FOR NOW.
HE SAID ANY SUCH MOVE WOULD
DAMAGE NEGOTIATIONS TO FREEZE
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: ON THE "NEWSHOUR"
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, NEARLY HALF OF
BOOMERS DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
SAVINGS TO COVER BASIC EXPENSES
IN RETIREMENT.
WHAT CAN BE DONE TO MAKE UP TH
ONE OF OUR "MAKING SENSE"
REGULAR COLUMNISTS HAS SOME
IDEAS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK AND NEXT,
PBS IS AIRING MANY SPECIAL
PROGRAMS TO MARK THE 50th
ANNIVERSARY OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.
KENNEDY'S ASSASSINATION.
TONIGHT, TWO OF THEM FEATURE
"NEWSHOUR" ALUMNI, JIM LEHRER
AND ROBERT MacNEIL.
THEY WERE BOTH IN DALLAS
COVERING THE EVENTS OF NOVEMBER
22, 1963.
JIM APPEARS ON "NOVA", AS IT
SEARCHES FOR FRESH CLUES TO THE
ASSASSINATION.
>> Ifill: AND ROBIN RECALLS
DETAILS ABOUT HOW CAREFULLY THE
NEWS MEDIA HANDLED THE
ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT'S
DEATH ON "SECRETS OF THE DEAD".
FOOD FOR THOUGHT IN THIS AGE OF
TWITTER.
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS FOR
THE TIMES.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL HAVE AN
EXCLUSIVE.
THE FIRST T.V. INTERVIEW WITH
THE NEW HEAD OF THE A.T.F.
PLUS, ROBERT MacNEIL IS WITH US
TO TALK ABOUT HIS LATEST BOOK.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE "PBS
NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.